README.md, before:

3BC Language
============
[![version](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/rodrigodornelles/3bc-lang?sort=semver)](https://github.com/RodrigoDornelles/3bc-lang/releases)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/rodrigodornelles/3bc-lang)](https://github.com/RodrigoDornelles/3bc-lang/blob/master/LICENSE.txt) 
[![quality](https://app.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/10888eee2fbc460b8ddb7476b0aceb23)](https://www.codacy.com/gh/RodrigoDornelles/3bc-lang/dashboard?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=RodrigoDornelles/3bc-lang&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Grade)
[![covarage](https://codecov.io/gh/RodrigoDornelles/3bc-lang/branch/master/graph/badge.svg?token=FS152PL31C)](https://codecov.io/gh/RodrigoDornelles/3bc-lang)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/RodrigoDornelles/3bc-lang.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/RodrigoDornelles/3bc-lang)

> Low level language, tiny virtual machine that works on computers and microcontrollers. (Friendly Punched cards)

| Common questions | answer |
| :--------------- | :----- |
| What is the purpose of the language? | the idea is to be a low level, simple and intuitive language that anyone can learn! (and that can even be read on punched cards) |
| Do you need knowledge of **C** to understand 3BC? | No, they have different syntaxes |
| What is the language's typing level ? | There is no distinction of types, they are just data |
| Does it have garbage collector? | No, the developer has full control over the memory, this follows the same philosophy as **C** "freedom with responsibility" |
| Does it work as a compiler? | It depends, compilation is done at runtime (JIT Compiling), the bytecode works directly on the virtual machine (similar to the JVM) |
| What are the influences? | **Java**, **Cobol**, Assembly´s **ARM** **x86** |
| Is it more compact than **Lua**? | Yeah, because it has the same performance target as the Arduino Uno microcontroller. And this impacts it's size (depending on the CPU's architecture, 14KiB ROM and 400 bytes RAM ) |

## Documentation ##

* **[Tutorial :us:](docs/tutorial-en-us.md)**
* **[Tutorial :brazil:](docs/tutorial-pt-br.md)**
* **[Cheatsheet](docs/cheatsheet.md)**
* **[Changelogs](docs/changelogs.md)**
* **[Ambient Roadmap](#ambient-roadmap)**
* **[How to "Hello World"](#how-to-hello-world)**
* **[List of early developers](#list-of-early-developers)**

## How to "Hello World" ##

These steps will guide you to run the hello world example and to have your first 3BC program running in your machine, let get's started.

After downloading the binary on the [releases](#https://github.com/RodrigoDornelles/3bc-lang/releases) page, just decompress the file and utilize the command line to interpret the source code using the compiler according to your operating system: [windows](#windows),[mac osx](#mac--unix--linux), [unix](#mac--unix--linux), [linux](#mac--unix--linux)

### example: `helloworld.3bc` ###

```RUBY
mode nill 0x2
strc nill 'h'
strc nill 'e'
strc nill 'l'
strc nill 'l'
strc nill 'o'
strc nill 0x20
strc nill 'w'
strc nill 'o'
strc nill 'r'
strc nill 'l'
strc nill 'd'
strc nill '!'
```

### windows ###

```
C:\Users\nicod\Downloads\3bc-windows-32>3bc.exe helloworld.3bc
hello world!
C:\Users\nicod\Downloads\3bc-windows-32>
```

### mac / unix / linux ###

```
$ ./3bc helloworld.3bc
hello world!
$
```

## Ambient Roadmap ##

 - [X] VM Memory auxiliary
 - [X] VM Output characters
 - [X] VM Memory Allocation 
 - [X] VM Input characters
 - [X] VM Memory Allocation 
 - [ ] VM Memory Pointers
 - [X] VM Mathematic Basics
 - [ ] VM Mathematic Boolean
 - [X] VM Labels
 - [X] VM Conditional Jumps
 - [X] Compiler just in time
 - [ ] Compiler to binary
 - [ ] Transpiler to C
 - [ ] Complete documentation
 - [ ] Programming IDE
 - [ ] Arduino Framework support
 - [ ] Web Assembly support
 - [ ] Modules Support
 - [ ] Includes support
 - [ ] Bindings support

## List of early developers ##

| **1º** | ![avatar](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/rodrigodornelles?size=32) | **[Rodrigo Dornelles](https://github.com/rodrigodornelles)** | **26 November 2020** |
| :-: | :-: | :-- | :--: |
| **2º** | ![avatar](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/kadu?size=32) | **[Carlos Eduardo](https://github.com/kadu)** | **28 November 2020** |
| **3º** |  ![avatar](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/robsondrs?size=32) | **[Robson Soares](https://github.com/robsondrs)** | **23 December 2020** |
| **4º** |  ![avatar](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/gnevesdev?size=32) | **[Guilherme Neves](https://github.com/gnevesdev)** | **28 December 2020** |
| **5º** |  ![avatar](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/marcusmmmz?size=32) | **[Marcus Paulo](https://github.com/marcusmmmz)** | **30 December 2020** |
| **6º** |  ![avatar](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/keshizin?size=32) | **[Takeshi Ishikawa](https://github.com/keshizin)** | **30 December 2020** |
| **7º** |  ![avatar](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/andreluispy?size=32) | **[André Luis](https://github.com/andreluispy)** | **31 December 2020** |
| **8º** |  ![avatar](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/guridev?size=32) | **[Francisco Noble](https://github.com/guridev)** | **2 January 2021** |
| **9º** |  ![avatar](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/lrv-dev?size=32) | **[Lucas Rangel](https://github.com/lrv-dev)** | **5 February 2021** |
| **10º** |  ![avatar](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/otavio-burato?size=32) | **[Otávio Burato](https://github.com/otavio-burato)** | **6 February 2021** |

Commit message:

add abstract to list of early developers

README.md, after:

3BC Language
============
[![version](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/rodrigodornelles/3bc-lang?sort=semver)](https://github.com/RodrigoDornelles/3bc-lang/releases)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/rodrigodornelles/3bc-lang)](https://github.com/RodrigoDornelles/3bc-lang/blob/master/LICENSE.txt) 
[![quality](https://app.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/10888eee2fbc460b8ddb7476b0aceb23)](https://www.codacy.com/gh/RodrigoDornelles/3bc-lang/dashboard?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=RodrigoDornelles/3bc-lang&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Grade)
[![covarage](https://codecov.io/gh/RodrigoDornelles/3bc-lang/branch/master/graph/badge.svg?token=FS152PL31C)](https://codecov.io/gh/RodrigoDornelles/3bc-lang)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/RodrigoDornelles/3bc-lang.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/RodrigoDornelles/3bc-lang)

> Low level language, tiny virtual machine that works on computers and microcontrollers. (Friendly Punched cards)

| Common questions | answer |
| :--------------- | :----- |
| What is the purpose of the language? | the idea is to be a low level, simple and intuitive language that anyone can learn! (and that can even be read on punched cards) |
| Do you need knowledge of **C** to understand 3BC? | No, they have different syntaxes |
| What is the language's typing level ? | There is no distinction of types, they are just data |
| Does it have garbage collector? | No, the developer has full control over the memory, this follows the same philosophy as **C** "freedom with responsibility" |
| Does it work as a compiler? | It depends, compilation is done at runtime (JIT Compiling), the bytecode works directly on the virtual machine (similar to the JVM) |
| What are the influences? | **Java**, **Cobol**, Assembly´s **ARM** **x86** |
| Is it more compact than **Lua**? | Yeah, because it has the same performance target as the Arduino Uno microcontroller. And this impacts it's size (depending on the CPU's architecture, 14KiB ROM and 400 bytes RAM ) |

## Documentation ##

* **[Tutorial :us:](docs/tutorial-en-us.md)**
* **[Tutorial :brazil:](docs/tutorial-pt-br.md)**
* **[Cheatsheet](docs/cheatsheet.md)**
* **[Changelogs](docs/changelogs.md)**
* **[Ambient Roadmap](#ambient-roadmap)**
* **[How to "Hello World"](#how-to-hello-world)**
* **[List of early developers](#list-of-early-developers)**

## How to "Hello World" ##

These steps will guide you to run the hello world example and to have your first 3BC program running in your machine, let get's started.

After downloading the binary on the [releases](#https://github.com/RodrigoDornelles/3bc-lang/releases) page, just decompress the file and utilize the command line to interpret the source code using the compiler according to your operating system: [windows](#windows),[mac osx](#mac--unix--linux), [unix](#mac--unix--linux), [linux](#mac--unix--linux)

### example: `helloworld.3bc` ###

```RUBY
mode nill 0x2
strc nill 'h'
strc nill 'e'
strc nill 'l'
strc nill 'l'
strc nill 'o'
strc nill 0x20
strc nill 'w'
strc nill 'o'
strc nill 'r'
strc nill 'l'
strc nill 'd'
strc nill '!'
```

### windows ###

```
C:\Users\nicod\Downloads\3bc-windows-32>3bc.exe helloworld.3bc
hello world!
C:\Users\nicod\Downloads\3bc-windows-32>
```

### mac / unix / linux ###

```
$ ./3bc helloworld.3bc
hello world!
$
```

## Ambient Roadmap ##

 - [X] VM Memory auxiliary
 - [X] VM Output characters
 - [X] VM Memory Allocation 
 - [X] VM Input characters
 - [X] VM Memory Allocation 
 - [ ] VM Memory Pointers
 - [X] VM Mathematic Basics
 - [ ] VM Mathematic Boolean
 - [X] VM Labels
 - [X] VM Conditional Jumps
 - [X] Compiler just in time
 - [ ] Compiler to binary
 - [ ] Transpiler to C
 - [ ] Complete documentation
 - [ ] Programming IDE
 - [ ] Arduino Framework support
 - [ ] Web Assembly support
 - [ ] Modules Support
 - [ ] Includes support
 - [ ] Bindings support

## List of early developers ##

Hall of fame with everyone who dedicated to **just learning a program with 3bc lang**, this list is open until the day that version **0.1** will be released.

| **1º** | ![avatar](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/rodrigodornelles?size=32) | **[Rodrigo Dornelles](https://github.com/rodrigodornelles)** | **26 November 2020** |
| :-: | :-: | :-- | :--: |
| **2º** | ![avatar](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/kadu?size=32) | **[Carlos Eduardo](https://github.com/kadu)** | **28 November 2020** |
| **3º** |  ![avatar](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/robsondrs?size=32) | **[Robson Soares](https://github.com/robsondrs)** | **23 December 2020** |
| **4º** |  ![avatar](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/gnevesdev?size=32) | **[Guilherme Neves](https://github.com/gnevesdev)** | **28 December 2020** |
| **5º** |  ![avatar](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/marcusmmmz?size=32) | **[Marcus Paulo](https://github.com/marcusmmmz)** | **30 December 2020** |
| **6º** |  ![avatar](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/keshizin?size=32) | **[Takeshi Ishikawa](https://github.com/keshizin)** | **30 December 2020** |
| **7º** |  ![avatar](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/andreluispy?size=32) | **[André Luis](https://github.com/andreluispy)** | **31 December 2020** |
| **8º** |  ![avatar](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/guridev?size=32) | **[Francisco Noble](https://github.com/guridev)** | **2 January 2021** |
| **9º** |  ![avatar](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/lrv-dev?size=32) | **[Lucas Rangel](https://github.com/lrv-dev)** | **5 February 2021** |
| **10º** |  ![avatar](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/otavio-burato?size=32) | **[Otávio Burato](https://github.com/otavio-burato)** | **6 February 2021** |
